Wrangler v4 migration guide (#18726)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/workers/languages/typescript/index.mdx

To ensure that your type definitions always match your Worker's configuration, you can dynamically generate types by running:

<PackageManagers type="exec" pkg="wrangler" args={"types"} />

See [the `wrangler types` command docs](/workers/wrangler/commands/#types) for more details.

:::note

<Render file="wrangler-commands/runtime-types" product="workers" />

:::

This will generate a `d.ts` file and (by default) save it to `worker-configuration.d.ts`. This will include `Env` types based on your Worker bindings _and_ runtime types based on your Worker's compatibility date and flags.

You should then add that file to your `tsconfig.json`'s `compilerOptions.types` array. If you have the `nodejs_compat` compatibility flag, you should also install `@types/node`.

You can commit your types file to git if you wish.

:::note

To ensure that your types are always up-to-date, make sure to run `wrangler types` after any changes to your config file.\*\*

:::

<h3 id="migrating">
	Migrating from `@cloudflare/workers-types` to `wrangler types`
</h3>

> We recommend you use `wrangler types` to generate runtime types, rather than using the `@cloudflare/workers-types` package, as it generates types based on your Worker's [compatibility date](https://github.com/cloudflare/workerd/tree/main/npm/workers-types#compatibility-dates) and `compatibility flags`, ensuring that types match the exact runtime APIs made available to your Worker. Note that there are no plans to stop publishing the `@cloudflare/workers-types` package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend you use `wrangler types` to generate runtime types, rather than using the `@cloudflare/workers-types` package, as it generates types based on your Worker's [compatibility date](https://github.com/cloudflare/workerd/tree/main/npm/workers-types#compatibility-dates) and `compatibility flags`, ensuring that types match the exact runtime APIs made available to your Worker. 

:::note

There are no plans to stop publishing the `@cloudflare/workers-types` package, which will still be the recommended way to type libraries and shared packages in the workers environment.

:::
```

---

import { TabItem, Tabs, PackageManagers, Render } from "~/components";

TypeScript is a first-class language on Cloudflare Workers. All APIs provided in Workers are fully typed, and type definitions are generated directly from [workerd](https://github.com/cloudflare/workerd), the open-source Workers runtime.

We recommend you generate types for your Worker by running [`wrangler types`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#types). Cloudflare also publishes type definitions to [GitHub](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-types) and [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@cloudflare/workers-types) (`npm install -D @cloudflare/workers-types`).

<h3 id="generate-types">
	Generate types that match your Worker's configuration
</h3>

Cloudflare continuously improves [workerd](https://github.com/cloudflare/workerd), the open-source Workers runtime.
Changes in workerd can introduce JavaScript API changes, thus changing the respective TypeScript types.

This means the correct types for your Worker depend on:

1. Your Worker's [compatibility date](/workers/configuration/compatibility-dates/).
2. Your Worker's [compatibility flags](/workers/configuration/compatibility-flags/).

> 3. Your Worker's bindings, which are accessed on the `env` object.

Reviewer 2: (defined in your Wrangler configuration file?)

> 3. Your Worker's bindings, which are accessed on the `env` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Your Worker's bindings, which are defined in your [Wrangler configuration file](/workers/wrangler/configuration).
```

> 4. Any [module rules](/workers/wrangler/configuration/#inheritable-keys) you have specified in your Wrangler configuration file under `rules`.

Reviewer 2: Possibly more useful link??

https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/configuration/#bundling

Reviewer 2: By the way, how do rules affect the typings?

Reviewer: They add a `declare module` section: https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/blob/0082051ddd88d4231649306632ebfc03870c581c/packages/wrangler/src/type-generation/index.ts#L511-L529

> 4. Any [module rules](/workers/wrangler/configuration/#inheritable-keys) you have specified in your Wrangler configuration file under `rules`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Any [module rules](/workers/wrangler/configuration/#bundling) you have specified in your Wrangler configuration file under `rules`.
```

For example, the runtime will only allow you to use the [`AsyncLocalStorage`](https://nodejs.org/api/async_context.html#class-asynclocalstorage) class if you have `compatibility_flags = ["nodejs_als"]` in your [Wrangler configuration file](/workers/wrangler/configuration/). This should be reflected in the type definitions.

To ensure that your type definitions always match your Worker's configuration, you can dynamically generate types by running:

<PackageManagers type="exec" pkg="wrangler" args={"types"} />

See [the `wrangler types` command docs](/workers/wrangler/commands/#types) for more details.

:::note

<Render file="wrangler-commands/runtime-types" product="workers" />

:::

This will generate a `d.ts` file and (by default) save it to `worker-configuration.d.ts`. This will include `Env` types based on your Worker bindings _and_ runtime types based on your Worker's compatibility date and flags.

You should then add that file to your `tsconfig.json`'s `compilerOptions.types` array. If you have the `nodejs_compat` compatibility flag, you should also install `@types/node`.

You can commit your types file to git if you wish.

:::note

> To ensure that your types are always up-to-date, make sure to run `wrangler types` after any changes to your config file.\*\*

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To ensure that your types are always up-to-date, make sure to run `wrangler types` after any changes to your config file.
```
i don't believe those asterisks are intentional, but if they are then this can be ignored
